# LC 152. Maximum Product Subarray
##### Relevant Links:
Type: #🔢 

URL: https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-product-subarray/

Difficulty: #🔶 


---
> Given an integer array `nums`, find a contiguous non-empty subarray within the array that has the largest product, and return _the product_.
It is **guaranteed** that the answer will fit in a **32-bit** integer.
A **subarray** is a contiguous subsequence of the array.

> **Input:** nums = [2,3,-2,4] <br>
**Output:** 6 <br>
**Explanation:** [2,3] has the largest product 6.

The idea of this is similar to [[LC 53. Maximum Subarray]], where we use [[Kadane's Algorithm]].

What we need to look out for when doing the calculations is for zeros as well as negative numbers.

With **zeros**, this will kill any product from the subarrays. This will reset the result to 0.  <br>
With **negative numbers**, this can make a number even worse. BUT this can be saved with another negative number that will make this positive. 

*maxProduct* will keep track of the max product we get from the subarrays. <br>
*minProduct* will keep track of the min product we get from the subarrays.

The reason we have these two variables is that maxProduct will keep track of the positive products that we get. This does not handle with the negative numbers. When we have minProduct, we want to get the lowest product, *this is because this can change if multiplied by another negative number.*  This will be explained more in the code overview.

```C++
	int maxProduct(vector<int> & nums) {
		int maxProduct = nums[0];
		int minProduct = nums[0];
		int result = maxProduct;
		
		for (int i = 1; i < nums.size(); i++) {
			int curr = nums[i];
			int tempMax = max(nums, max(maxProduct * curr, minProduct * curr);
			minProduct = min(nums, min(minProduct * curr, maxProduct * curr ));
			
			maxProduct = tempMax;
			
			result = max(maxProduct, result);
		}
		
		return result;
	}
```

## The Code Explained

```C++
for (int i = 1; i < nums.size(); i++)
```
We start at i = 1 since we start the maxProduct and minProduct at nums[0].
```C++
	int tempMax = max(nums, max(maxProduct * curr, minProduct * curr));
```
The reason why we have a tempMax instead of just setting maxProduct to that result is that minProduct and maxProduct depend on each other, and configuring maxProduct before we do the minProduct calculation will ruin the results. By having a new variable every time during this calculation, we are able to not affect the minProduct calculation.
<br> We can see the minProduct and maxProduct calculations happening simultaneously with eachother. 

### The maxProduct and minProduct
```C++
minProduct = min(nums, min(minProduct * curr, maxProduct * curr));
```
This will keep track of the minimum products. This is incase a negative multiplies itself by another negative and the value is huge.
We have **nums** in case maxProduct gets too low, or minProduct gets too high.


---
References:


