# LC 121. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock
##### Relevant Links: [[Array]] | [[Dynamic Programming]]
Type: #🔢 

URL: https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/

Difficulty: #🔷 

---
> You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day. You want to maximize your profit by choosing a **single day** to buy one stock and choosing a **different day in the future** to sell that stock. Return _the maximum profit you can achieve from this transaction_. If you cannot achieve any profit, return `0`.


Example 1: 
>**Input:** prices = [7,1,5,3,6,4] <br>
**Output:** 5 <br>
> **Explanation:** Buy on day 2 (price = 1) and sell on day 5 (price = 6), profit = 6-1 = 5.
Note that buying on day 2 and selling on day 1 is not allowed because you must buy before you sell.

**Thoughts**: What we want to do is find the biggest difference, so prices[i] minus ith day.

## Brute Force
One solution we can do is a brute force solution, which will do iterate through each element finding the biggest difference, or max profit.

This will result in ==O(n<sup>2</sup>)==. 

```C++
class Solution {
	public:
		int maxProfit(vector<int> & prices) {
			int maxProfit = 0;
			for (int i = 0; i < prices.size(); i++) {
				for (int j = j + 1; j < prices.size(); j++) {
					int profit = prices[j] - prices[i];
					if (profit > maxProfit)
						maxProfit = profit;
				}
			}
			return maxProfit;
		}
}
```

## A Faster Approach
A faster approach would be to use an approach similar to [[Kadane's Algorithm]], but not necessarily. This approach would involve keeping track of each min price, and subtracting each price by that min price. The largest difference is the max profit.

```C++
class Solution {
	public:
		int maxProfit(vector<int> & prices) {
			int maxProfit = 0;
			int minPrice = INT_MAX;
			for (int i = 0; i < prices.size(); i++) {
				if (prices[i] < minPrice)
					minPrice = prices[i];
				else if (prices[i] - minPrice > maxProfit)
					maxProfit = prices[i] - minPrice;
			}
			return maxProfit;
		}
}
```

Because we are only running through the list twice, we have an improved time complexity of ==O(n).== Space Complexity would just be ==O(1)== as we are not creating anything new.